Docs(versioning): Add versioning and release information (#1135)
siemens/ix: packages/documentation/docs/release-info.md

---
sidebar_position: 
sidebar_title: Versioning and releases
title: Versioning and releases
---

# Siemens Industrial Experience versioning and releases

<p className="text-l-title">
Our Siemens Industrial Experience design team strive to provide a stable and reliable system that's constantly evolving to meet your needs. This section describes our practices for new features and changes, deprecating and removing outdated features, and our long-term support for older versions. 
</p>

### Versioning

We use ![semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases. Version numbers indicate the level of changes introduced by the release and follow the standard major, minor and patch format. 

| Release type        | Details                                                     |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Major release       | Contains significant new features and changes, might include breaking changes. Updating requires some developer efforts and can include .... Formerly deprecated components are removed when updating to a new major version. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Major release       | Contains significant new features and changes, might include breaking changes. Updating requires some developer efforts and will include backward incompatible changes to APIs, file paths, component behavior and/or dependencies. Formerly deprecated components are removed when updating to a new major version. |
```

Author: fixed with fcecabf69207f77b44c4d3e81b737cde03b9a2cf

---
sidebar_position: 
sidebar_title: Versioning and releases
title: Versioning and releases
---

# Siemens Industrial Experience versioning and releases

<p className="text-l-title">
We at Siemens Industrial Experience strive to provide a stable and reliable design system. At the same time we aim to constantly evolve our offer to meet our user's needs and provide the tools for leading-edge application development. Finding the balance between stability and evolution is our daily business.

> This document describes our practices on how we provide new features and changes, remove features and support existing versions. It gives you the background to make sensible decisions on your own update schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes our practices on how we provide new features and changes, deprecate and remove outdated features and provide lont term support for older versions. It gives you the background to make sensible decisions on your own update schedule.
```

Author: resolved with f868163ad102727a160d42fedc6cab91c2fb5c47

</p>

### Versioning

We use ![semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases. Version numbers indicate the level of changes introduced by the release and follow the standard format: major.minor.patch.

| Release type        | Details                                                     |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Major release       | Contains significant new features and changes, might include breaking changes. Updating requires some developer support and can include .... Formerly deprecated components are removed when updating to a new major version. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Major release       | Contains significant new features and changes, might include breaking changes. Updating requires some development efforts and can include .... Formerly deprecated components are removed when updating to a new major version. |
```

| Minor release       | Contains smaller features and changes. Updating requires no developer support. Minor versions can include status changes of components to deprecated. They are fully backward compatible. |

> | Patch release       | Contains bug fixes. Updating requires no developer support. |

Reviewer: See comment above (l. 21).

### Release frequency

We follow a time based release schedule consisting of
- a major release every 6 months
- 1-3 minor releases for each major release
- patch releases as hot fixes whenever necessary

### Support policy

> All major releases receive support for approx. 6 months. We distinguish two support stages for major releases:

Reviewer: TBD 6 or 12 months?

Author: We originally committed to 6 months for active and long-term support phase, resulting into 12 months overall support for a major version. So maybe 12 months is actually more accurate here.

```suggestion
All major releases receive support for approx. 12 months. We distinguish two support stages for major releases:
```
